---

copyright:
  years: 2019, 2021
lastupdated: "2021-01-05"

keywords: IBM Cloud, Activity Tracker, event fields

subcollection: activity-tracker

---

{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:pre: .pre}
{:table: .aria-labeledby="caption"}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:tip: .tip}
{:download: .download}
{:important: .important}
{:note: .note}



# Event fields
{: #event}

{{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} events are based on the Cloud Auditing Data Federation (CADF) standard. 
{:shortdesc}

The CADF standard defines a full event model that includes the information that is needed to certify, manage, and audit security of applications in cloud environments.

The CADF event model includes the following components:

| Component | Description |
|------------|----------------------------|
| `Action`   | The action is the operation or activity that an initiator performs, attempts to perform, or is waiting to complete. |
| `Initiator`| The initiator is the resource that makes an API call and generates a CADF event. The event that is triggered depends on the action that is requested by the API call. |
| `Observer` | The observer is the resource that creates and stores a CADF record from information available in a CADF event. |
| `Outcome`  | The outcome is the status of the action against the target. |
| `Target`   | The target is the resource against which the action is performed, attempted to perform, or is pending to complete. |
{: caption="Table 1. Components that are available in a CADF event model" caption-side="top"} 


The following fields are included in each Activity Tracker event:


## action (string)
{: #action_field}

This field indicates the action that triggers an event. 

The format of this field is the following:

```
serviceName.objectType.action
```
{: codeblock}

Where 

* `servicename` is the name of the service.

    There is an exception on the `servicename` that is set for actions reported by the VPC infrastructure. The format of the `servicename` is composed of 2 parts that are separated by a dot (`.`).

* `objectType` describes the resource or resource attribute on which the action is requested. 

* `action` defines the task requested by the initiator.  

    Some valid actions are: `add`, `bulkdelete`, `create`, `read`, `update`,`delete`, `backup`, `build`, `capture`, `configure`, `deploy`, `disable`, `enable`, `get`, `import`, `inspect`, `list`, `monitor`, `pull`, `push`, `restore`, `start`, `stop`, `undeploy`, `receive`, `reimport`, `remove`, `send`, `set`, `set-on`, `set-off`, `authenticate`, `read`, `renew`, `revoke`, `allow`, `deny`, `evaluate`, `notify`, `rotate`

For more information about action values that are generated by services, see [Cloud services](/docs/activity-tracker?topic=activity-tracker-cloud_services#cloud_services).

For example, a sample action is `iam-am.policy.create`.


## eventTime (string)
{: #eventTime_field}

This field indicates the timestamp when the event was created. 

The timestamp that you see for an event in the UI is set from eventTime and indicates the time when the event was created.
{: note}
  
The date is represented as Universal Time Coordinated (UTC). 

The format of this field is: 

```
YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss.SS+0000
```
{: codeblock}
   
For example, a sample eventTime is `2017-10-19T19:07:50.32+0000`.



## Initiator fields
{: #initiator}

Initiator fields provide information about the user, service, or application that request to run an action in your account. 

The following table lists the common fields that are available for each event:

| Field Name                  | Description | Example |
|-----------------------------|-------------|-------|
| `initiator.id`              | ID of the initiator of the action. | Example of an IBMID is `IBMid-000000XXX2` </br>Example of a service ID is `iam-ServiceId-12345678-0165-4c89-847d-9660b1632e14` </br>Example of a CF user ID is `7666666b-23ae-4a34-8569-cu75tgdr4da3` |
| `initiator.name`            | Username of the initiator that initiated the action. | For example, an email address. |
| `initiator.typeURI`         | Type of the source of the event. | `service/security/account/user` |
| `initiator.credential.type` | Type of initiator ID credential. | `apikey` |
| `initiator.host.address`    | IP address where the request came from | `19.12.134.145` |
| `initiator.host.addressType` | Indicates the type of IP address. Valid values are `IPv4` and `IPv6`. | `IPv4` | 
| `initiator.host.agent`      | Reports information about the client | For example. `ibm-cos-resource-config-sdk` |
{: caption="Table 2. Common initiator fields" caption-side="top"} 




### initiator.id (string)
{: #initiator.id}

This field provides information about the ID of the initiator of the action. 

You can find any of the following initiators:
* `IBM ID` for users that use an IAM token to trigger an action in your account.
* `Service ID` for services or applications that trigger an action in your account.
* `Cloud Foundry (CF) user ID` for users that use a UAA token to trigger an action in your account.
* `Certificate ID` for requests where a certificate is used to trigger an action in your account.

### initiator.name (string)
{: #initiator.name}
 
This field provides information about the username of the initiator of the action.

This is the human readable name that corresponds to the `initiator.id` value. 

### initiator.typeURI (string)
{: #initiator.typeURI}

This field defines the type of the source of the event.

Valid values are: `service/security/account/user`, `service/security/account/serviceid`, `service/security/client/certificateid`, `service/security/clientid`



### initiator.credential.type (string)
{: #initiator.credential.type}

This field defines the type of credential that is used by the initiator to run the action.

Valid values are: `token`, `user`, `apikey`, `certificate`



### initiator.host.address (string)
{: #initiator.host.address}

This field provides information about the address where the request came from. 

The format of this field is:

```
xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
```
{: codeblock}

For example, a sample `initiator.host.address` is `15.234.123.12`.

When the initiator of an action is an {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} service, this field is set empty.
{: note}





## logSourceCRN  (string)
{: #logSourceCRN}

This field defines the resource where the event is generated. 




## message (string)
{: #message}

This field is set to the human-readable description of the event. 

The format of this field is: 

```
serviceName: {event description} [outcome]
```
{: codeblock}

Where 

* `servicename` indicates the name of the service.
* `{event description}` provides a human-readable version of the what the event is reporting.
* `outcome` is optional and is only included when the outcome of the request is `failure`.




## observer.name (string)
{: #observer_name_field}

This field is set to the fixed value **ActivityTracker**.


## outcome (string)
{: #outcome}

This field indicates the result of the action. 

Valid values are: `success`, `pending`, or `failure`.


## reason.reasonCode (numeric)
{: #reason.reasonCode}

This field returns the HTTP response code of the action requested.

The `reason.reasonCode` field is set to `403` to report forbidden access or unauthorized. 
The `reason.reasonCode` field is set to `409` to report conflict.

## reason.reasonType (string)
{: #reason.reasonType}

This field provides additional information about the result of the action requested. 

When the outcome is failure, you can find additional information in the field `reason.reasonForFailure` if the event includes this field.



  
## requestData (JSON)
{: #requestData}

When the field is available, it includes additional information about the request.  

This field is optional.


## responseData (JSON)
{: #responseData}
 
When the field is available, it includes additional information about the request. 

This field is optional.


## saveServiceCopy (boolean)
{: #saveServiceCopy}

This field determines whether the IBM service that generates the event saves a copy of the event for {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} auditing.

When it is set to `true`, the service that generates the event saves a copy.


## severity (string)
{: #severity}

This field defines the level of threat an action may have on the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}.

Valid values are: `normal`, `warning`, and `critical`.

The following table describes how this field is set based on the type of action:

| Value      | Type of action | Sample of action |
|------------|----------------|------------------|
| `normal`   | Routine actions in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} | Start an instance | 
| `warning`  | Actions that fail </br>Actions where a resource is updated or its metadata is modified | Rename a service instance | 
| `critical` | Actions that affect security in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} such as changing credentials of a user or deleting data </br>Actions where the initiator is not authorized to work with an {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} resource | Delete a security key |
{: caption="Table 3. Severity values by type of action" caption-side="top"}



## Target fields
{: #target}

Target fields provide information about the resource that is accessed, created, updated, or deleted by the initiator's action in your account. 


The following table lists common target fields that are available for each event:

| Field Name | Description | Value |
|------------|-------------|-------|
| `target.id` `[1]` | Cloud Resource Name (CRN) of the resource on which the action is executed. | For example, `crn:v1:bluemix:public:cloud-object-storage:global:a/12345678e6232019c6567c9123456789:fr56et47-befb-440a-a223c-12345678dae1:bucket:bucket1` |
| `target.name` | Human-readable name of the resource on which the action is executed. |  |
| `target.typeURI` | Type of the cloud resource on which the action is executed. | For example, `iam-am/policy` or `cloud-object-storage/bucket/acl` |
| `target.host.address` | IP Address or URL of the target service |  | 
{: caption="Table 4. Common target fields" caption-side="top"} 

`[1]` For events that are generated by Cloud Foundry, the `target.id` is set to the GUID of the resource. 

### target.id (string)
{: #target.id}

This field indicates the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} resource on which the action is executed. 

The format of this field is a **CRN**. For more information, see [CRN format](/docs/account?topic=account-crn).



### target.name (string)
{: #target.name}

This field indicates the human readable name of the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} resource on which the action is executed.

Make sure that the name of resources does not include sensitive or PII data. 



### target.typeURI (string)
{: #target.typeURI}

This field indicates the type of the target of the event. 

The format of this field is: 

```
serviceName/objectType/attribute
```
{: codeblock}

Where

* `servicename` is the name of the service.
* `objectType` is the resource on which the action is run.
 
For example:

| action                                            | target.typeURI                                  |
|---------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| cloudcerts.certificate.import                     | cloudcerts/certificate                          |
| container-registry.namespace.create               | container-registry/namespace                    |
| kms.secrets.read                                  | kms/secrets                                     |
| cloud-object-storage.instance.create              | cloud-object-storage/instance                   |
| cloud-object-storage.object-multipart.create      | cloud-object-storage/object/multipart           |
{: caption="Table 5. target.typeURI examples" caption-side="top"}



### target.host.address (string)
{: #target.host.address}

This field defines the IP Address or URL of the target service.

This field is optional.


## Labels and line identifiers
{: #labels}

Labels and line identifiers provide information about the service that is generating the event.

The following table outlines common labels and line identifiers that you can find in events:

| Area               | Label              | Description                                          | Event field name that you can use to search |
|--------------------|--------------------|------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
| `IBM`              | `platform-service` | Service that generates the event                     | `_platform`      |
| `Line identifier`  | `Source`           | Service that generates the event                     | `host`           |
| `Line identifier`  | `Env`              | Environment: `production`                            | `env`            |
| `Line identifier`  | `App`              | CRN of the service instance in your account          | `app`            |
{: caption="Table 6. labels and line identifiers" caption-side="top"}





