---

copyright:
  years: 2019, 2022
lastupdated: "2022-05-23"

keywords: IBM Cloud, Activity Tracker, security, auditing, restrictions, limitations

subcollection: activity-tracker

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}
 

# Restrictions and limitations
{: #limitations}


Learn about restrictions and limitations using the {{site.data.keyword.atracker_full}} Event Routing v2 API.

{: shortdesc}


This information applies only if you use {{site.data.keyword.atracker_short}} Event Routing v2 API.
{: important}



- If you configure {{site.data.keyword.atracker_short}} Event Routing to route auditing events to an {{site.data.keyword.atracker_short}} event search instance, the JSON for auditing events that are generated by the following services includes fields within the `payload`. This is a breaking change from the V1 configuration. Your {{site.data.keyword.atracker_short}} event search views, dashboards, screens, alerts and terraform scripts might be impacted.

    - {{site.data.keyword.iamlong}}
    - {{site.data.keyword.messagehub_full}}
    - {{site.data.keyword.dev_cli_notm}}

- [Metrics](/docs/activity-tracker?topic=activity-tracker-monitoring_metrics#monitoring_metrics_details) for a [logDNA target](/docs/activity-tracker?topic=activity-tracker-target_v2_at) are not available.

- To collect {{site.data.keyword.cos_full}} auditing events by configuring {{site.data.keyword.atracker_short}} Event Routing, you must enable collection of data events. To enable data events through the UI, you need to select or provision an instance of {{site.data.keyword.atracker_short}} hosted event search. If you use the API, you must define the CRN of an {{site.data.keyword.atracker_short}} hosted event search instance. 




