


DB2on cloud



- Enabling KP

The data that you store in Db2 when using the Enterprise plan is encrypted by default by using randomly generated keys. If you need to control the encryption keys, you can use IBM Key Protect to create, add, and manage encryption keys. Then, you can associate those keys with your Cloud Databases deployment to encrypt your Db2 database

Please ensure Databases for Db2 has been authorized to access the selected Key Protect instance. You can manage service-to-service authorizations at any time by visiting Manage > Security > Identity and Access and choosing Authorizations.

- Db2 audit facility

You can monitor data access in your IBM® Db2® on Cloud instance with the built-in Db2 audit facility. (https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/db2/11.5?topic=activities-introduction-db2-audit-facility)
The audit facility provides the ability to audit at both the instance and the individual database level, independently recording all instance and database level activities with separate logs for each. The system administrator (who holds SYSADM authority) can use the db2audit tool to configure audit at the instance level as well as to control when such audit information is collected. The system administrator can use the db2audit tool to archive both instance and database audit logs as well as to extract audit data from archived logs of either type.

The security administrator (who holds SECADM authority within a database) can use audit policies in conjunction with the SQL statement, AUDIT, to configure and control the audit requirements for an individual database. The security administrator can use the following audit routines to perform the specified tasks:
•	The SYSPROC.AUDIT_ARCHIVE stored procedure archives audit logs.
•	The SYSPROC.AUDIT_LIST_LOGS table function allows you to locate logs of interest.
•	The SYSPROC.AUDIT_DELIM_EXTRACT stored procedure extracts data into delimited files for analysis.

When working in a partitioned database environment, many of the auditable events occur at the database partition at which the user is connected (the coordinator partition) or at the catalog partition (if they are not the same database partition). The implication of this is that audit records can be generated by more than one database partition. Part of each audit record contains information identifying the coordinator partition and originating partition (the partition where audit record originated).

At the instance level, the audit facility must be stopped and started explicitly by use of the db2audit start and db2audit stop commands. When you start instance-level auditing, the audit facility uses existing audit configuration information. Since the audit facility is independent of the Db2 database server, it will remain active even if the instance is stopped. In fact, when the instance is stopped, an audit record may be generated in the audit log. To start auditing at the database level, first you need to create an audit policy, then you associate this audit policy with the objects you want to monitor, such as, authorization IDs, database authorities, trusted contexts or particular tables.






